---
layout: post
title:  Released 0.5.1
date:   2009-11-15 17:23:46 +0100
categories: release
---

A new version of NLarn is available. This is a bug-fix and refinement-only release, thus all the changes are small, but so should be the number of bugs.
Get it from [Sourceforge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/nlarn/files/nlarn/0.5.1/).

If you have installed the previous version using the Windows Installer package you can simply run the new installer and install over the previous version.

## Changes in this version:

* Monsters do either pick up a single item or move. Previously monsters could even pick up multiple items and move as well.
* The Leprechaun steals and teleports again.
* Added burnt/corroded/rusty to item description.
* Fixed messages given when changing the level.
* Drinking a potion of forgetfulness could lead to a crash. This has been fixed.
* Washing at the fountain had been assigned the 't' key and been described as _tidy up at fountain_. This has been reassigned to 'W' with the description _wash at fountain_.
* Added description messages when using stationary objects.
* Thrones could generate multiple gnome kings. This has been fixed.
* Fixed order of messages when killing a monster and thus gaining an experience level.
* Monsters can no longer enter a level when the entrance is blocked.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when examining a position with a monster on it.
* Fixed a mistakable message when casting the spell _vaporise rock_.
* Started using a directory for the user's game related files; read .ini-file from there; put save file into it. Under Linux this directory is called _~/.nlarn_, under Windows it is below _Application Data_ (or the localised version thereof).
* Read settings from the .ini-file correctly when restoring a saved game.
* Fixed a crash when pressing the windows keys while having a window open.
* Gems sold to the bank do no longer appear in the DND store.
* Items sold to the trade post are refurbished before being added to the DND store.
* The bonus of armour and weapons sold in store is now known to the player.
* Fixed a crash when displaying high scores and the current score is not in the list.
* Fixed a crash in large inventories when scrolling with page down starting with the second entry.
* Added monsters and the player to the map shown at the end of the game. Added some statistics to the obituary.
* Player dies if strength or dexterity sink below 1.
