---
layout: post
title:  Released 0.4
date:   2009-09-10 20:32:49 +0100
categories: release
---

NLarn 0.4 is finished! [Download it now!](http://sourceforge.net/projects/nlarn/)

Changes:
* Implemented artefacts.
* Cursed and blessed items. Cursed books, potions and scrolls have side effects.
* Items match the level the player is on.
* Items monsters have stolen are added to the monster's inventory (and can thus be gained back by killing the monster).
* Reworked how damage is dealt and taken.
* Monsters have multiple attack types and change them when the player takes no damage from an attack.
* Implemented _spirit naga_ and _mimic_; improved the _disenchantress_.
* All windows are displayed when multiple windows are stacked.
* Windows can be moved with CTRL+_cursor_.
* Spells can be selected by typing their short name in the select spell dialog.
*  Weapons can have effects.
* Raised the number of effects an item can have from one to infinite.
* Implemented _Bessman's Flailing Hammer_.
* The inventory weight is respected. Picking up items which are too heavy is no longer possible.
* Improved interface. Low HP and MP are displayed in different colour; the most important negative effects and the level names are now shown.
* Implemented list of discovered items.
* Implemented _walk through walls_, _dizziness_ and _paralysis_.
* Implemented _potion of amnesia_.
* Made sure monsters can not be positioned on player's tile.
* Implemented altar, fountain, mirror and throne.
* Items are affected by level effects, e.g. burn or rust.
* Improved autopickup - choosing item types to pick up is now possible.
* Many, many minor improvements and countless fixes...
