---
layout: post
title:  Released 0.5
date:   2009-11-03 01:12:53 +0200
categories: release
---

Here comes a new release of NLarn.
Get it from [Sourceforge](http://sourceforge.net/projects/nlarn/files/nlarn/0.5/).

## New in this version:
* Save your game and continue playing later.
* The town level is now static and has a lake and lots of trees. Buildings can now be recognised as such.
* Shops debit the player's bank account for their services.
* It is now possible to save a memorial file for a deceased character. The obituary contains a list of vanquished creatures.
* Configuration file allows to preset autopickup and the like.
* Implemented a string input function.
* The caption in the get_count dialog can now be wrapped.
* Created a rpm spec file.
* Created an installer for Windows.
* More weapons and armour types. Raised weapon and armour prices.
* Monsters that can use weapons will use weapons - against you!
* Implemented taking things out of and putting things into containers.
* Added a chance of failure when casting a spell.
* Ability to display spell description in the spell selection dialog.
* Honour spell knowledge level when calculation spell damage/power.
* Added ability to examine any visible position. Enhanced the descriptions of a position.
* Monsters can use stairs or even enter the town to follow the player.
* Monsters can fall through trap doors and appear on the level below.
* Vastly lowered gem values.
* Re-enforce monsters on a map every now and then.

## Bugs and features fixed in this version:
* Fixed stealth.
* Fixed a crash in the inventory dialog.
* A leprechaun who picked up a gem could cause a crash in the drawing code (this one took me hours to figure out. You got to love C!)
* A message is logged when no item has been discovered instead of showing an empty dialog box.
* Fixed a bug in auto-pickup code which would lead to a game freeze and 100% CPU usage.
* Fixed duplicate knowledge of spells.
* Move all _Spheres of Destruction_.
* Fixed the behaviour of backspace key in the get_amount dialog.
* Fixed a game freeze when a fireball hit monsters.
* Books are used up upon successful learning.
* Corrected spell MP usage. Aborted spells no longer cost MPs.
* Corrected cloning of items with effects.
* When withdrawing large sums from the bank without being able to carry it the money was lost. This has been fixed.
* Fixed a hang at the end of the game.
* Fixed trap generation of traps: now trapdoors are generated, too.
* Nymphs can no longer steal cursed items that are equipped.

