---
layout: post
title:  Release 0.6.1
date:   2010-10-22 19:58:59 +0200
categories: release
---

We are happy to announce a new version of NLarn. After the last version was quite crash-prone, this release fixes all the bugs we could find and also incorporates a lot of fixes for minor issues. Thanks to everybody who provided feedback. We really appreciate your help!

Get it from [Sourceforge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/nlarn/files/nlarn/0.6.1/).

Saved games from versions 0.6 are compatible with this version. If you have installed a previous version with the Windows Installer package you can simply run the new installer and install over the previous version.

## Changes

* Several improvements to auto-travel.
* Permanently display the item description in the inventory.
* Modified behaviour when picking up items:
    ',' just gets the item
    'g' asks for the amount to pick up
  Reported by Xecutor.
* Use shortened weapon names for the wielded weapon display.
* Added an option to disable automatic saving.
* Show spell level in book description.
* Set native end-of-line characters for nlarn.ini-sample. Reported by
  R. Alan Monroe.
* Show a popup message when loading or saving the game.
* Display the message when selecting a position in an popup window.
  Return the cursor to the player with '@'.
* Disable auto-pickup for the player's position after the player has
  chosen to abort picking up an item.
* Added a message when aborting a spell or hitting an unseen monster
  with a spell.
* Blessed scrolls of teleport always take the player to town.

## Fixed bugs

* Recognise keypad enter on Windows. Reported by Xecutor and Michael Ax.
* Allow using numpad direction keys for fast movement with num lock
  off on Windows.
* Offer only items that can be blessed or cursed for curse removal or
  blessing.
* Delete the player's memory of the map when successfully casting 'alter
  reality. Reported by Michael Ax.
* Fixed the scroll of genocide monster. Reported by Michael Ax.
* Interpret 'j' and 'k' as mnemonic letters in the spell casting dialog
  when another letter has been entered before.
* Abort spawning new monsters when a map is fully crowded.
  Recalculate number of monsters on a map when restoring a saved game.
  Previously, an unlimited number of monsters has been created when
  restoring a game frequently. Reported by Peter Casey and Michael Ax.
* Added missing monster effect descriptions. Without this, the monster
  description returned "An uninjured elf, fleeing ()." for an elf
  affected by "phantasmal forces".
* Fixed a very frequent random crash, a very rare crash, and some
  pieces of code that potentially could have caused crashes.
* Make aborted spells not cost turns.
* Fix an assertion when aborting phantasmal forces and an information
  leak in that spell.
* Initialise wizard_mode game property before creating a new game. This
  is necessary if we want to stock the DND store differently depending
  on whether a game is started in wizard mode or not.
* Remove notes from items sold to the trade post.
* Fixed many memory leaks.
* Fixed a typo.
