---
layout: post
title:  Release 0.7.2
date:   2012-07-06 19:54:50 +0100
categories: release
---

After only a short span of time, the next release on NLarn is finished.

The most significant change is the availability of a MacOS X installer.
NLarn uses SDL PDCurses on OS X, which allows to scale the window; the font size will change with the window size. It is known to work on Snow Leopard and Lion. As it is a 64-bit application it will not work on older Macs. Currently the '\\' key (which will open the list of discovered items) is not recognized (at least with a german keyboard layout), the reason is under investigation. If anybody has an idea how to solve this, I'd be more than glad to hear from you!

Except this, most predominantly a lot of bug fixing and mending was undertaken, but still some features were added. Saved games created by previous versions are obsolete.

[Download it from sourceforge](http://sourceforge.net/projects/nlarn/files/nlarn/0.7.2/) and I hope you enjoy playing it!

### The changes.

* Added an OS X disk image with "installer".
* Use SDL PDCurses per default on OS X. This allows to scale the window and set the window icon and title when running.
* Implemented magic resistance for monsters. The hell hound, the spirit naga and the demon lords and prince are now resistant to damage cause by magic (currently only the magic missile).
* The spells lightning, cone of cold and fireball can now destroy doors.
* It is now possible to target a spell while blinded.
* Implemented the disarming of traps and the removal of traps from containers(key: 'D'). Moved the previous shortcut for the list of discovered landmarks from 'D' to CTRL+D.
* When quaffing healing or power potions at full hp or mp the maximum for the specific stat is increased.
* Allow ranged attacks on invisible monsters and decreased the chance to hit then with melee and ranged attacks.
* Abort searching when monsters are close.
* The metamorph will now drop it's weapon when turning into a monster that cannot use it; the new monster's hp depend on the relative amount of the new monster type's maximum hp.
* Show a message when an item is identified by wearing it.
* Ensure that unique weapons won't break.
* Added version information to the Windows installer.
* Display a message when using the potion of full healing.

### The fixed bugs.

* Fixed a crash that could occur when a blast of fire (caused by hell hounds or red dragon) destroyed items in the inventory.
* Fixed a crash when a monster triggerd a trap with a specific message.
* Various fixes and enhancements for spheres of anihillation.
* Do not swap weapons when none is readied.
* Inhibit various actions while paralyzed.
* Corrected combat messages and disable looking around while blinded.
* Fixed the spell "polymorph".
* Ensure the townsfolk don't block important places.
* Some fixes to the monastery:
  * Fix two crashes: one occured when aborting the item selection; the other when uncursing uncursed, but unidentified items.
  * The monastery will no longer "remove curses" on containers (i.e. traps).
  * Ensure the price for remove curse is at least 1gp.
  * Handle plural case in a monastery message.
* Avoid ammo that is stuck inside walls.
* Fix repair price calculation for blessed items.
* Ensure the scroll of blank paper is unlabeled.
* Show sec. weapon and quivered item in obituary.
* Corrected the description of the spell "cancellation".
* Don't show the name of unseen monsters.
