---
layout: post
title:  Release 0.7.1
date:   2012-05-27 15:34:45 +0100
categories: release
---

I'm happy to announce another iteration of NLarn. This release focuses on bug fixes and balancing. Some of the changes made this version incompatible to the previous version's save files.

[Download it today](http://sourceforge.net/projects/nlarn/files/nlarn/0.7.1/) and spend all your free time playing it, but don't blame me if you miss your next exam.

Changes in this release are:
* More armour:
  * a simple cloak.
  * Boots of Speed (unique).
  * Cloak of Invisibility (unique).
* Weapons can break during combat. The number of broken weapons is counted and shown in the postmortem.
* Make damaged items less effective: burnt, corroded or rusty weapons and ammunition will now cause less damage, damaged armour will protect less.
* Redesigned armour and weapon distribution in the dungeon. The elven chain is more heavy and unique.
* Reduced the availability of items in the store.
* Replaced the amulet of invisibility by the amulet of sustainment, which protects against attribute draining attacks.
* The bank pays less interest on player's savings.
* Increased school course prices. The course prices now depend on the length of the course, thus maintaining the balance between benefit and cost.
* Raise item identification and repair prices. The prices will now depend on the item's value. For lower-prices items the minimum charge stays at 50 gold. Repair prices for item stacks depend on the amount of items.
* Generate monster item adequate to dungeon level. Previously troglodytes on dungeon level 3 could carry an amulet of power, which was not desirable. Another effect of this change is that monsters in the deep dungeon levels carry more interesting items.
* Do not erode items inside containers.
* Implemented scroll of hold monster. This scroll was in error set up as a scroll that affects the player, and as the effect "hold monster" has no effect on the player, this mistake went unnoticed until now.
* Reduced the range of enlightenment.
* Wizard Mode: allow to select stationary objects as teleport destination (as for auto-travel).
* Improved the help file.
* Modernised the Windows Installer.
* Windows Resources now allow icons for the executable and embedded dynamic version information in the executable.
* Accept ^U/^D in the inventory, spell list and message windows as PGUP/PGDOWN.
* Expanded scores in the memorial file onto two lines. This avoids ugly wraps and allows to display more information. Spelled out explanational remarks and added the dungeon level.
* Enhanced saving the memorial file:
  * Save the file in the user's home directory; on Windows save it under "My Documents".
  * Offer to chose a new file name if a file exists.
  * Wrap and indent long lines at column 78.
  * Choose the line terminator matching the platform.
* Implemented working setgid for system-wide installations on *nix systems.

Quite a lot of bugs got fixed:
* Adapted the map loading code to native EOL. This fixes unreachable areas when playing on Windows (reported by many).
* Fixed enlightenment for the upper left corner of the map (Reported by Krice).
* Fixed a crash after shooting the last ammo.
* Ensure player's experience can not sink below zero. This fixes a crash that occurred when drinking from a fountain and loosing more experience than the player has.
* Calculate adjacent monsters while enlightened. This fixes targeting and allows to abort running or auto-travel.
* Fixed increase of spell effect duration when casting a spell known at a higher level of knowledge multiple times.
* Prevent swapping cursed weapons.
* Fixed the descriptions for item stacks in the shop (use the plural form when applicable).
* Fix the order of message when unequipping multiple item types: log success only after the time is passed. Fixed the order of messages when climbing out of a pit.
* Fixed ranged attacks to monsters over water/lava.
* Waste ammo when dropped on deep water or lava.
* Slings and bows are two-handed weapons, too.
* Recalc burdened status after fighter courses.
* Colour first headline in identified item's list.
* Count scrolls scribed at the school as item purchase, not as
      educational purpose.
* Fixed a memory leak and accesses to freed memory found by valgrind.
