---
layout: post
title:  Release 0.7.5
date:   2020-04-24 18:49:00 +0200
categories: release
---

After three weeks the next release on NLarn is finished. Mainly driven by the desire to fix saving scores on Windows, which was broken in the previous version 0.7.4, this release also brings some nice improvements which were long wished for.

A main menu now welcomes the player when starting the game; when a character dies, instead of disrespectfully terminating, the player returns to the main menu and can immediately start over. The interface has also been subtly improved in other aspects: important messages now stand out in bright colours and finally items on the player's position are menitoned in the game log, sparing the effort of always examining places with items.

Games created by the previous version 0.7.4 are compatible and can be continued. I'm also happy to announce that the macOS installation package, which was missing for the previos release, has returned for this release.

[Download NLarn 0.7.5 from Sourceforge](http://sourceforge.net/projects/nlarn/files/nlarn/0.7.5/) and continue your endeavours in the caverns of Larn!

### The changes.
* Add a menu system: instead of dropping into to the game on start,
  present a menu with the option to start a or continue the saved
  game, configure the settings and view the highscores. When the
  player dies, don't drop out of the game, but return to the menu.

{% include image.html url="/images/2020-04-24_NLarn-0.7.5_main_menu.png" caption="Main menu" max_width="300px" %}

* Increase difficulty after winning the game
* Emphasise important messages with color (e.g. a critical hit is
  shown in bright red)
* Emphasise most recent message in the log, show others grayed out
* Mention items at player's position in the log
* Improve the result of the charm monster spell
* Improve monster status descriptions
* Remove the option to set the game difficulty from the command line
* Increased robustness against broken configuration files

### The fixed bugs.
* Fix saving highscores on Windows
* They're the caverns, not some random dungeon
* Consistent naming of the buildings
* Fix sleep and hold monster for townsfolk
* Fix generating giant bats (not generated by 0.7.4)
