---
layout: post
title:  Release 0.7.7
date:   2025-06-19 15:05:09 +0200
categories: release
---

After another hiatus finally some news! Fresh and colourful comes NLarn 0.7.7.

In the last five years, most terminal emulators do no longer interpret bold
as bright anymore, as 256 colours are supported everywhere and people seemingly
decided that backwards compatibility to the eighties is not required anymore.
In the result, the game looked quite broken and had to be fixed. With more
colours!

{% include image.html url="/images/2025-06-19_NLarn_0.7.7_256-colours.png" caption="256 colours" max_width="300px" %}

Games created by the previous version 0.7.6 are not compatible. Hopefully
future additions wil not break save files anymore!

[Download NLarn 0.7.7 from Sourceforge](http://sourceforge.net/projects/nlarn/files/nlarn/0.7.7/).

# Changes:
* Switch to 256 colours
* New weapon: the elven longsword - elves may be equipped with it
* Overhaul the material of some weapon:
  * All spears are made of wood
  * The elven short sword is now made of mithril
  * The flail is now made of wood
* Reduce the probability of monsters with powerful weapons
* Reduce the probability of weapons breaking
* Reduce the probability of monsters dropping weapons
* Show carried gold in yellow (suggested by jv84)
* The potion of see invisible now cures blindness (suggested by jv84)
* Modified potions of instant healing: they now always cure poisoning
  and sickness. The previous special behavior of blessed potions of
  instant healing got removed.
* Healing spell and healing potion no longer cure sickness
* Show attended courses in school
* Stay at home until explicitly leaving (with ESC)
* More robust save file format. Future additions of items will not break
  existing savegames anymore
* Toggle full screen mode with ALT-Enter (macOS and Windows)
* Change font size while the game is running (macOS and Windows)
* Switch Windows build to WIN64

# Fixed bugs:
* Fix a crash bug fighting regenerating monsters when playing on
  difficulty level 10 (spotted by r0cc0r0cc0)
* Fix getting numeric input (macOS and Windows)
* Fix enlightenment effect wrapping around map borders
* Improve handling of terminal resizes while showing dialogues
* Fix typo in monastery (spotted by jv84)
* Fix compilation with recent compilers (patch by Frank Uhlig)
* Fix compilation on FreeBSD (found in r7st's fork)

