---
layout: post
title:  NLarn 0.7.9 - Streamlined Inventory
date:   2026-06-27 18:50:00 +0200
categories: release
---
## New Features

NLarn 0.7.9 delivers a major inventory overhaul designed to reduce micromanagement and speed up
gameplay. Finally, there is a headline for each item type in the inventory and you can now jump
directly to the first item of any type by pressing its glyph. This greatly enhances the overview
not only in the inventory, but also provides a better shopping experience in the DND Store.

{% include image.html url="/images/2026-06-27-NLarn_0.7.9_inventory_headlines.png" caption="Inventory headlines" max_width="300px" %}

Three powerful new actions eliminate tedious picking: "pick up all items" from the ground,
"get all items from a container", and "get all items from your stash at home".
<!-- more -->

Visual feedback gets a boost with colored magic missile rays, and the obituary now displays
container contents so you can see exactly what you were carrying when you suffered from YASD.
The bank branch office is also more player-friendly, no longer refusing service over outstanding
taxes.

Developers and testers will appreciate backtraces on assertion failures and crashes (unfortunately,
on Linux and FreeBSD only), making debugging significantly easier.

## Bug Fixes

Fixed levels displaying off-center on Windows, inventory windows now close properly when the player
dies, the userdir command line parameter works as expected, and keys are highlighted in the colour
scheme dialogue.

[Download NLarn 0.7.9 from Sourceforge](http://sourceforge.net/projects/nlarn/files/nlarn/0.7.9/).
